it is a word that evokes many emotions
in people it's a derogatory racial
remark that has divided people for many
years and a Jefferson County High School
teacher has now received the longest
suspension on record for calling a
student the n-word
whas leavens defender Renee Murphy
investigates what happened and why in
this story you'll only see on 11th
Valley traditional high school is in the
middle of a racial controversy right now
a teacher used the N word towards a
student the word is only six letters
long but the impact is far-reaching and
we do want to warn you that some of the
language in this story is strong and it
may offend you it may offend some other
people but since the story is not just
about the n-word it's also about the
teachers intent and definition of the
word we have decided to leave it in the
story for you to decide hey what did he
say specifically to you Keshawn chambers
is a freshman at Valley High School a
Boy Scout a football player a member of
the ROTC an honor roll student he was
hanging around his teacher's classroom
door in December the teacher told him to
sit down and the teacher says that
Rishon used the n-word first and I just
kind of was stunned a second well well
then get away from the door nigga and I
was just I repeated the same insult
because that's sort of what I've been
trained to do the school district says
that is not what they trained English
teacher Paul Dawson to do he tried to
say I said it and for something and I
didn't say it and no one else in the
class knows that I said it because I
didn't documents from the school
investigations show that several of the
students interviewed from Valley did not
hear Keshawn say the n-word first Dawson
says that students use the slang version
of the n-word at Valley High School all
the time he says an IG ger is a racial
slur but says that students use ni GGA
as often as they say dude or hey man and
Dawson says as much as he does not like
the word
still use the slang version to feel more
comfortable with students mind why is
this word used so frequently so I just I
just don't understand it and I'm trying
to understand it I need help
yes I